# Results

## IgG-FcγR binding varies with affinity and avidity

![**Human FcγR binding changes with FcγR-IgG pair and avidity.** A) Quantification of hIgG subclass TNP-4-BSA and TNP-26-BSA IC binding to CHO cells expressing the indicated hFcγRs (N = 4). Background binding of the ICs to CHO cells expressing no hFcγR was subtracted from the mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) obtained from binding to CHO cells expressing individual hFcγRs. Each IC binding measurement was further normalized by dividing by the average of all the points within that replicate. B) Receptor expression quantification for each CHO cell line expressing a single hFcγR subclass. C) Measured TNP-4-BSA-IC binding, normalized to the receptor expression within each CHO cell line, as a function of the measured hFcγR-hIgG subclass affinity [@Bruhns:2009kg]. D) Measured TNP-26-BSA-IC binding, normalized to the receptor expression within each CHO cell line, as a function of the measured hFcγR-hIgG subclass affinity [@Bruhns:2009kg]. E) Fold increase in TNP-26-BSA binding over TNP-4-BSA binding as a function of the measured hFcγR-hIgG subclass affinity. All error bars are standard error of biological replicates (N <= 4). Derived quantities use error propogated from each value.](./Figures/Figure1.svg){#fig:Binding}

Building upon earlier work in which IC avidity was shown to alter human FcγR-IgG binding, we wished to examine the influence of IC avidity and IgG composition on the binding and activation of different human FcγRs (hFcγRs) [@Lux:2013iv]. We assessed the binding of ICs presenting one of four human IgG (hIgG) subclasses to cells expressing one of six hFcγR subclasses at a single IC concentration. To do so, we utilized a panel of CHO cell lines, each stably expressing a single hFcγR species, and two populations of IC, with averaged avidities of four and 26, assembled by covalently attaching 2,4,6-trinitrophenol (TNP) to bovine serum albumin (BSA; see Methods). Anti-TNP antibodies of differing hIgG subclass were bound to the BSA complexes before treatment. The measured binding and variation in binding with avidity recapitulated that measured before, with variation as a function of hIgG subclass, hFcγR, and avidity [@Lux:2013iv]  ([@Fig:Binding]A).

We quantitatively measured receptor abundance for each hFcγR-expressing cell line to account for this potential source of variation in binding. This revealed twenty-fold variation in the amount of each hFcγR expressed ([@Fig:Binding]B). To interpret these measurements, we normalized the amount of binding measured to the amount of hFcγR expressed and plotted each measurement against the measured affinity of the individual hFcγR-hIgG monovalent interaction. We observed a strong correlation between the affinity of the relevant hFcγR-hIgG pair and measured binding, along with a shift toward more binding with increased avidity ([@Fig:Binding]C-D). By comparing each TNP-26-BSA and TNP-4-BSA measurement, we observed that the avidity-dependent change in binding varied with the relevant affinity of the hFcγR-hIgG monovalent interaction ([@Fig:Binding]E). Lower affinity interactions were more avidity-dependent, and the measured binding for each IC with low monovalent affinity was too high to be the result of monovalent binding alone. These observations indicated to us that affinity, avidity, and receptor expression were all critical to interpreting IC binding.

## A multivalent interaction model accounts for variation in FcγR-IgG binding

![**A multivalent binding model accounts for IgG-FcγR binding.** A) Schematic of the multivalent binding model for interaction of an IC with a single species of hFcγR. B) Predicted versus measured binding for each hFcγR-hIgG pair at each avidity.  C) Geweke convergence criterion for each walker of the MCMC chain. A significant p-value indicates failed convergence. D) Marginal distribution for the crosslinking constant $K_x^*$. E) Average binding avidity predicted for a single interaction between a cell and an IC of avidity four, versus monovalent binding affinity at varied receptor expression levels. F) Marginal distribution for the constants to convert IC binding to normalized MFI. G) Marginal distribution for the avidities of TNP-4-BSA and TNP-26-BSA. H) Marginal distribution for each distribution spread parameter. I) The marginal distributions for receptor expression within each cell line expressing a single hFcγR subtype. Experimental measurements of receptor expression ([@Fig:Binding]B) are individually overlaid.](./Figures/Figure2.svg){#fig:Fit}

To interpret the complicated variation in binding we observed with each hFcγR-hIgG pair (i.e. affinity), receptor expression, and IC avidity, we employed an equilibrium model of multivalent ligand/monovalent receptor binding [@Stone:2001fm]. Within the model, an initial binding event occurs with the kinetics of the monovalent interaction ([@Fig:Fit]A). Subsequent binding events with the same IC occur with a partition coefficient (crosslinking parameter) $K_x$ (see Methods). Values of $K_x$ much greater than 1 promote highly multivalent interactions, while $K_x$ values much less than 1 result in predominantly monovalent binding.

Treating $K_x$ as constant across receptor-epitope combinations may be reasonable when dealing with interactions of similar affinity, but clearly breaks down when a wide range of receptor-ligand affinities is involved. For example, for an FcγR-IgG interaction of barely measurable affinity, one would not expect to see multimeric binding occur with the same partitioning as an extremely high affinity interaction. Most concerning, given the assumption of equilibrium, is that an assumption of constant $K_x$ violates detailed balance when this model is extended to include multiple receptor species that all bind the same epitope. Therefore, in attempt to resolve these issues, we assume that $K_x$ is proportional to $K_a$, such that there exists a crosslinking coefficient $K_x^{*}$ such that $K_x = K_x^{*}K_{a}$. With this assumption, detailed balance is preserved, and $K_x$ is reduced when $K_a$ is very low, as expected (see Methods).

We utilized a Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation to fit this model to our measurements of hFcγR-hIgG binding [@ForemanMackey:2013ux]. We observed close agreement between measured values and our model's prediction of each condition ([@Fig:Fit]B). Both the sample autocorrelation ([@fig:Autocorrel]) and the Geweke diagnostic ([@Fig:Fit]C) indicated sampling convergence [@Geweke:1991tk]. Inspecting the fit of each parameter revealed that all parameters were well-specified, and that many of the parameter fits closely agreed with prior expectations. The $K_x^*$ parameter was found to be roughly $10^{-12}$ ([@Fig:Fit]D). For the high-affinity hFcγRI-hIgG1 interaction, this comes out to a crosslinking constant of $6\times 10^{-5}$ per cell^-1^, close to the crosslinking constant of $1.35\times 10^{-5}$ per cell^-1^ observed for the high affinity human IgE-hFcεR interaction [@Hlavacek:1999bb]. This fit for the crosslinking coefficient falls within a range that provides differing binding behaviour dependent upon the affinity of the receptor interaction ([@Fig:Fit]E). Namely, the predicted binding valency upon a single IC interaction responds to changes in both affinity and receptor expression level within the range experimentally observed. Finally, there was a 1.6-fold difference in the fit values of the conversion coefficients that convert the number of TNP-4-BSA and TNP-26-BSA bound to mean fluorescent intensity, with the coefficient for TNP-26-BSA being larger ([@Fig:Fit]F). A difference in the IC-to-fluorescence conversion coefficients is expected as IC binding was measured with an anti-TNP fluorescent antibody.

Our prior distribution constrained the TNP-4-BSA and TNP-26-BSA avidities between one and twelve and between 20 and 32 respectively, which must be considered when interpreting the resulting fit ([@Fig:Fit]G). Within this constraint, there was a strong preference toward higher effective avidity with both species. The method for coupling TNP to BSA presumably creates a distribution of avidities and so deviation from the average is not surprising. A preference toward higher than average avidity binding is perhaps consistent with our ealier measurements that avidity has a potent effect on the level of binding ([@Fig:Binding]). That the deviation parameter for the IC binding data, $\sigma_1^*$, is fit to a greater value than the standard error of the receptor expression measurements, $\sigma_2^*$, is consistent with greater variation in the former measurements ([@Fig:Fit]H). We compared $\sigma_2^*$ to its experimental value by calculating the standard errors of the receptor expression measurements normalized to the means of these measurements, then averaging these values. The resultant number (0.08) was close to and fell within one standard deviation of the predicted value (0.06). Finally, fits of receptor expression closely matched measured levels ([@Fig:Fit]I). In total, this demonstrates that a multivalent binding model accurately captures hFcγR-hIgG binding.

## A binding model provides specific predictions for the coordinate effects of IC abundance, avidity, and IgG subclass

![**Specific predictions for the coordinate effects of IC parameters.** A-C) Predicted hFcγRIIIA-F-hIgG1 binding (A), multimerized receptor (B), and number of receptor crosslinks (C) versus IC concentration at varied avidities. D) The amount of IC binding versus number of crosslinks for varied avidities. E) Schematic of the multivalent binding model for interaction of an IC with multiple species of FcγR. An individual IC can interact with a heterogeneous mix of receptors according to their affinities. The effective association constant for any crosslinking step, $K_x$, is proportional to affinity. F) The predicted amount of multimerized receptor versus avidity for a cell expressing hFcγRIIIA-F and hFcγRIIB simultaneously when hIgG1-IC concentration is varied from 1 pM to 10 µM (beginning and ending near the origin). G) The calculated activity index (see Methods) for the conditions in F. H) Change in the activity index versus the A/I ratio for variations in hFcγRIIIA-F affinity responding to 1 nM hIgG1-ICs. I) Change in the activity index upon varying the affinity of mFcγRI, mFcγRIII, and mFcγRIV simultaneously expressed along with mFcγRIIB responding to 1 nM mIgG2b-ICs at an avidity of 5. Dot indicates the affinity of the receptor when not varied. Activity index increased by 50 at all values of $K_a$ for mFcγRI to make its curve visible.](./Figures/Figure3.svg){#fig:pModel}

With confidence that an equilibrium binding model can predict FcγR-IC binding, we sought to apply the model to make predictions about the combined influence of avidity and affinity on effector function. We focused on hFcγRIIIA, which is expressed alone within NK cells or alongside hFcγRIIB in dendritic and other cell populations [@Lux:2013iv; @Robinette:2015tp]. Predicted binding curves showed a shift left with increased avidity, consistent with the avidity-dependent shift observed in similar contexts [@Ortiz:2016kc]  ([@Fig:pModel]A). Examining the number of receptor-receptor crosslinks and the abundance of receptors in multimer complexes showed a strong change with avidity, and biphasic concentration dependence ([@Fig:pModel]B-C). As a consequence of the differences in behavior between receptor multimerization and binding, increased avidity leads to far more oligomerization at a comparable level of receptor binding ([@Fig:pModel]B-D). For example, an IC of avidity 32 leads to the same amount of receptor oligomerization as the peak for avidity two at a 1000-fold lower concentration, and while binding roughly 50-fold less receptor. This emphasizes that avidity is an essential factor to consider for enacting effector responses and that measured receptor binding alone cannot predict consequent FcγR response.

In contrast to NK cells, other innate immune cell types express higher-affinity activating and lower-affinity inhibitory FcγRs in combination. Specifically, the inhibitory receptor hFcγRIIB is known to dampen effector function both endogenously and during a response to exogenous hIgG treatment [@RavetchRev]. We wondered how coordinate expression of an activating and inhibitory receptor would modulate the hFcγR-IC complexes formed. We first plotted the abundance of multimerized hFcγRIIIA versus multimerized hFcγRIIB for varied avidity and concentration of ICs. This indicated that, at low concentrations, hFcγRIIIA multimerization was higher at all avidities ([@Fig:pModel]F). Past a threshold concentration, hFcγRIIIA multimerization plateaued, and hFcγRIIB multimerization accumulated. This effect was observed for all avidities greater than one, only varying in the magnitude of the difference in multimerization, indicating that the effect of the lower affinity inhibitory receptor may modulate the concentration dependence of response more so than avidity. We additionally explored the influence of hFcγRIIB by defining an activity index (see Methods) as a surrogate measure for effector response. This predicted that inhibitory receptor has minor effects on the dose response relationship with respect to concentration or avidity ([@Fig:pModel]C vs. G).

Instead, we wondered if an inhibitory receptor plays a larger role on influencing the relative response between IgG subclasses as compared to IC concentration or avidity. Indeed, earlier work examining interventions of antibodies with constant variable regions but of differing IgG subclass identified that the ratio of the highest affinity activating receptor $K_a$ to that of the inhibitory receptor (A/I ratio) could predict the influence of each intervention. While this ratio has proven successful across many contexts, we wondered if our model might help identify the reason for this quantity's ability to predict effector response [@Nimmerjahn:2005hu; @Mimoto:2013gf; @Bournazos:2014cw]. By varying the affinity of the activating receptor, we indeed observed a strong relationship between the A/I ratio and activity index over the range of ratios previously examined ([@Fig:pModel]H). A second implicit assumption of the A/I ratio is that the highest affinity receptor is the primary activating receptor that influences response. By varying the affinity of each receptor in a four receptor model, we observed that the highest affinity receptor had the greatest influence on the activity index (see Methods) ([@Fig:pModel]I). Indeed, as lower affinity receptors were shifted to have higher affinity than the original highest affinity receptor, the response shifted toward dependence on that receptor.
