## An IgG-FcγR binding model deconvolves *in vivo* function

![**An FcγR-IgG binding model deconvolves *in vivo* function.** A) Schematic of earlier IgG subclass experiments and our approach. B) Effictiveness of individual mIgG interventions versus the A/I ratio of each mIgG constant region. Effectiveness is the percent reduction in lung metastases observed with treatment. C) Predicted versus regressed effectiveness for mIgG interventions upon mFcγR knockout using the maximal activating mFcγR affinity and inhibitory mFcγR affinity. D) Principal components analysis of the relevant affinities within each condition of mIgG treatment along with mFcγR knockout. E) Individual quantities calculated for each intervention from a multivalent binding model. Each quantity is scaled according to the weighting applied by the fitted regression model. F) Effectiveness predicted by the multivalent binding model, quantified by activity index, versus observed effectiveness. G) Leave-one-out model variance explained with individual input components removed. H) Fraction of effectiveness attributable to NK cell function within each intervention. I) Predicted effect on response when modulating antigen avidity of each mIgG subclass. Black line indicates assumed avidity of TA99 used for model training.](./Figures/Figure4.svg){#fig:InVivoResults}

We wished to explore whether a multivalent binding model can enable one to reverse engineer effector function *in vivo*. We surmised that our modeling approach would allow one to predict the effect of therapeutic interventions involving ICs with defined IgG subclass composition on the driving responses of different cell populations based on their FcγR expression profile. Prior studies investigating treatments for HIV, cancer, and autoimmune dysfunction have utilized antibodies with constant antigen binding, while varying other parameters of FcγR engagement to show the effect of these variations on effector function [@Nimmerjahn:2005hu; @Bournazos:2014cw]. One finding from these studies is that the relative affinity of an IgG subclass to each FcγR is important to the resulting response. However, we hypothesized that a more exact model of FcγR engagement would more robustly predict effector response ([@Fig:InVivoResults]A).

TODO: ASM check working of following 2 ❡

To study *in vivo* effector response, we focused on the manipulations made in one study, wherein antibodies against the B16F10 melanoma antigen TRP1 (TA99) were applied to block lung metastasis in C57BL/6 mice. Using a panel of antibodies with differing constant region revealed that an A/I ratio predicted response ([@Fig:InVivoResults]B). However, we noted that murine IgG2b (mIgG2b) showed divergence from the strong relationship observed for the other antibody constructs. To study this panel of interventions further, we included a number of murine FcγR (mFcγR) knockout or blocking manipulations by assuming the affinity of the receptor would be zero (SUPP TABLE). The A/I ratio cannot exist in the absence of an inhibitory receptor, and so we regressed the log-transformed maximal activating affinity and inhibitory receptor affinity, including knockout receptor conditions, to see whether this information could predict response in the broader panel ([@Fig:InVivoResults]C). The highest affinity activating receptor $K_a$ and inhibitory receptor $K_a$, even when treated as separate quantities, poorly predicted response in this larger panel, suggesting that other information is required to predict response within a wider panel of perturbations.

Examining the affinities present with each intervention emphasized that each antibody treatment differs in a multivariate way ([@Fig:InVivoResults]D). We hypothesized that, although the A/I ratio captures the dominant variation for smaller changes in antibody binding, this other variation becomes important for more divergent interventions. Among different human immune cell populations, two dominant patterns of hFcγR expression are generally found: hFcγRIII expression alone as observed in NK cells, and expression of hFcγRI, hFcγRIIB, hFcγRIII and hFcγRIV coordinately in other cell populations. We applied our binding model to simulate each of these two populations, assuming a set avidity and ligand concentration ([@Fig:InVivoResults]E). (Choice of avidity and ligand concentration did not affect the results ([@Fig:SuppTwo]A).) We assumed that knockout of the inhibitory receptor hFcγRIIB likely has some effect on changing the baseline of response, as dendritic cells and other immune populations show a baseline level of activation without this receptor [@Boruchov:2005dt; @Dhodapkar:2005jy]. Regressing these three quantities against response showed a remarkable predictive capacity ([@Fig:InVivoResults]F). All three quantities were absolutely required for predicting response ([@Fig:InVivoResults]G).

Examining the components of the resulting predictive model revealed how the A/I ratio is usually but not always predictive. Each input quantity is scaled by model weighting to indicate the relative contribution of each quantity ([@Fig:InVivoResults]E). From these, the divergent response of mIgG2b is elucidated. mIgG2a is exceptional in activating DC-like cell populations, while mIgG2a and mIgG2b have similar capacities to activate NK cells. mFcγRIIB knockout changes the baseline activation state of the DC-like populations, making response much more sensitive to NK cell activation. This provides a number of specific, testable predictions: first, NK cell activation plays a significant and separable role in the response seen to many mIgG subclasses, and all of the partial response seen with mIgG2b ([@Fig:InVivoResults]H). Second, mFcγRIIB knockout does not necessarily reflect the changes that would occur upon engineering mIgG with reduced mFcγRIIB binding, since its effects had to be accounted for through a baseline shift in our methods. Third, rather than a quantitative difference, mIgG2a is qualitatively distinct in its ability to activate DC-like populations. Applying this model can provide focus for further IgG engineering. For example, this predicts that modulating the avidity of antigen binding would strongly influence resultant effector function ([@Fig:InVivoResults]I).
