## Comparing human and mouse IgG-FcγR interactions

![**Comparing human and mouse IgG-FcγR interactions.** A) Principal components analysis of predicted 1 nM IC binding and activation at with coordinate changes in murine IgG class and immune complex avidity. B) Corresponding principle components analysis for the human case. Points of the same color and shape in the human case display each of the eight possible genotypes between FcgRIIA-131H/R, FcgRIIB-232I/T and FcgRIIIA-158V/F.](./Figures/Figure5.svg){#fig:SpeciesCompare}

As a multivalent binding model can predict FcγR binding and effector function *in vivo*, we examined the multivariate effects on activation predicted with receptors from each species. We expected that the activation model might help identify conserved aspects of FcγR signaling between species.

By assembling predictions for ligand binding and activity indeces for murine NK and DC-like cell populations, we observed divergent effects dependent upon IC class. Principal component (PC) 1 was observed to separate IC responses at higher avidities, while PC 2 separated most prominently along IC class ([@Fig:SpeciesCompare]A). IgG1 and IgG2b showed bias towards positive PC 2 scores, while IgG2b toward negative scores. Examining the loadings, decreasing PC 2 corresponded to DC-like cell ligand binding and activation, while NK cells showed positive PC 2 weighting in both aspects. This is consistent with these IgG classes showing divergent effects *in vivo*, and our predicted effects of the classes on NK and DC-like cells ([@Fig:InVivoResults]E).

Comparing these results to those with the human FcγR-IgG pairs revealed conserved parallels ([@Fig:SpeciesCompare]B). PC 1 similarly separated conditions by avidity, while PC 2 separated IgG1 and IgG4 from IgG3. 