# Discussion

A unified multivalent binding model accounting for IC valency and affinity provides a framework for reasoning about how IC binding is affected by changing antibody-antigen binding or constant region composition ([@Fig:Fit]). Glycosylation forms and engineered mutants, in addition to variation in antigen binding, exponentially expand the repertoire of antibody variants possible. The quantitative model presented here provides a robust framework for reasoning about the contributions of each of these variables. Since it would not be feasible to experimentally explore all combinations of these variables, such a model is necessary for knowing which combinations would result in the most effective immunotherapeutic intervention. Further, a unified model for IC engagement may make it possible to consider the effects of antibody combinations in a rational manner.

In addition to enabling rationally designed immunotherapeutic interventions, our model of IC engagement makes it feasible to infer the factors contributing to the *in vivo* efficacy of existing immunotherapies ([@Fig:InVivoResults]). In particular, we show through the application of our model to murine immunotherapy data that it can predict the effect of tumor-targeted antibodies better than an affinity ratio alone. This model additionally provides a number of specific, testable predictions: First, even modest reductions in inhibitory FcγR engagement may drastically increase the efficacy of mIgG2b, but only so long as activating receptor affinities are preserved ([@Fig:InVivoResults]I). This ability to predict effector function for each individual cell population, given the kinetics of binding to each FcγR, will help to explore the complex changes constant region glyclosylation confers to antibody function [@GlycoAbRev]. Second, our model implicates cMO cells in the ability of TA99 mIgG2a to clear lung metastases. Given recent results showing that tumor location influences the relevant effector cell populations, this suggests that the optimal antibody design may be dependent upon tumor location [@Lehmann:2017ij].

Applying this model can provide focus for future IgG engineering. For example, further development may inform application of antibody combinations of differing class for synergistic effector function. While we lack information about the effective valency of TA99 engagement, more detailed characterization of its antibody binding might enable coordinate rational design of antibody class and antigen valency. Our model is dependent upon FcγR abundance and the quantitative relationship between binding state and cell response; therefore, further refinement of where these receptors are expressed and how they sense IC engagement will improve our ability to study the *in vivo* environment. In particular, effector function is a complex mix of processes, including ADCC, ADCP, and CDC. More detailed information about the activity of each of these processes with each treatment would allow for more narrowly targeted design. The versatility of antibody-based therapies ensure broad applicability of this approach to many diseases in which IgG effector function plays a key role, including the design of therapeutic antibodies for the treatment of infectious disease, autoimmune disorders, and other cancers.

More generally, these results demonstrate the ability of molecular models linked to data-driven inference to deconvolve *in vivo* function. Due to the baffling complexity of the immune system, model-driven design is vital to the advancement of rationally designed immunotherapies. Like Fc receptors, many innate immune receptors are extensively characterized in their interactions and knockout effects, and yet operate through combinatorial complexity due to diversity in protein species. As binding profiles and signaling mechanisms of these receptors become better quantified, model-driven design will prove to be a powerful vehicle for further immune engineering advancement.
